Essential Duties and Responsibilities:

Interpret data, analyze results using statistical techniques and provide ongoing reports.

Develop and implement databases, data collection systems, data analytics and other strategies that optimize statistical efficiency and quality.

Acquire data from primary or secondary data sources and maintain databases/data systems.

Identify, analyze, and interpret trends or patterns in complex data sets.

Filter and “clean” data by reviewing computer reports, printouts, and performance indicators to locate and correct code problems.

Work with Management/Production to prioritize business and information needs.

Locate and define new process improvement opportunities.

Minimum Qualification Requirement:

1. 7+ years of experience

2. Proven working experience as a data analyst or business data analyst.

3. Technical expertise regarding data models, database design development, data mining and segmentation techniques.

4. Strong knowledge of and experience with reporting packages (Business Objects etc), databases (SQL etc), programming (XML, Javascript, or ETL frameworks).

5. Knowledge of statistics and experience using statistical packages for analyzing datasets (Excel, SPSS, SAS etc).

6. Strong analytical skills with the ability to collect, organize, analyze, and disseminate significant amounts of information with attention to detail and accuracy.

7. Adept at queries, report writing and presenting findings.

8. Strong knowledge of Excel (pivot tables, graphs and formulas)

9. BS in Mathematics, Economics, Statistics or equivalent.

Physical Requirements:

1. Able to sit and work at the computer for extended periods of time.

2. Able to lift at least 25 pounds if needed.

3. Able to stoop, kneel, bend at the waist and reach on a daily basis.

Develops, documents, and maintains definition, production, usage, classification, and compliance rules across multiple business units to support the enterprise management of data.

Collaborates with data owners and data custodians to identify and resolve more complex data governance issues in a timely and collaborative manner.

Supports the development of processes and procedures for Data Governance and Stewardship.

Supports the analysis and documentation of data capture standards associated with new products.

Serves as a resource to internal stakeholders

Documents and records information, decisions, and recommendations made by the Data Governance Council.

Education

4 Year/Bachelor's degree or equivalent work experience (4 years of experience in lieu of Bachelor's)

Experience

10 to 15 years of work experience in IT field

2+ years’ experience in the financial and/or insurance industry with data exposure (nice to have)

2+ years’ project management and process development experience

Exposure to data warehousing and management reporting projects/initiatives.

Works with mathematical concepts such as averages and/or variances.

Ability to analyze information and to evaluate the implications of a course of action or solution.

Define problems, collect data, establish facts and draw valid conclusions.

Evaluate trends in data or information.

Demonstrated strong relationship management skills with internal clients (e.g. management, peers and colleagues); proven ability to develop collaborative approaches.

Confident, comfortable communicator with strong written and verbal communication skills.

Proficiency with Microsoft Office Suite (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook).


Key Responsibilities

Understand how to make data visually appealing and simple to both navigate and comprehend for end-users
Aggregate data from various sources to construct streamlined data pipelines and integrate data from multiple PayPal systems
Identify key metrics and build exec-facing dashboards to track progress of the business and its highest priority initiatives
Identify key business levers, establish cause & effect, perform analyses, and communicate key findings to various stakeholders to facilitate data driven decision-making
Work closely across the matrix with teams like Finance, Marketing, Product, Engineering and senior executives
Lead and participate in special projects/initiatives: innovate and implement large-scale quality improvements to processes and/or systems by conducting data analysis and making recommendations, troubleshooting technical issues, and refining processes around customer support
Basic Requirements:

Graduated, or will be graduating, with a bachelor’s or master’s degree in Computer Science, Math, Statistics or related field
Experience with one or multiple of the following will be highly desirable; Python, Java, Tableau, Jupyter Notebooks, Teradata, Hadoop/Hive, Oracle, JavaScript, SQL, Airflow, Linux, Perl, PHP
Excellent understanding of computer science fundamentals, data structures, and algorithms
Demonstrated experience, familiarity and ease with handling large data sets and crunching numbers
Information Retrieval (search/recommendation/classification) experience or Human Judgment/User Interface experience
Strong written and verbal communication skills with the ability to translate complex problems into simpler terms, and effectively influence both peers and senior leadership


Degree in math, statistics, computer science, a physical or biological science, engineering, or related field. Several years of experience or course work in a programming language such as C/C++, Java, or Python (Python is our primary development language, but is not strictly required).
Experience working with large data sets, machine learning techniques, developing software for scientific applications, knowledge of high-performance computing techniques, or SQL are highly desirable but not required.
Background in finance and/or industry experience is not required.
We are looking for a highly curious individual who is comfortable in a collaborative environment, and who enjoys seeing the things they build have real world impact.

QUALIFICATIONS

Degree in math, statistics, computer science, a physical or biological science, engineering, or related field.
Several years of experience or course work in a programming language such as C/C++, java, or python.

Degree in quantitative or business fields preferred
Prior experience in a consumer organization is a plus
Web and mobile analytics experience using a variety of tools
Proficiency with Firebase and/or Google Analytics
Experience using SQL
Python experience is a great plus
Experience with web and mobile tagging, including tag management system (GTM, DTM,...)Ability to build and manage dashboarding tools (Data Studio, Redash, Tableau,...)
Strong analytical skills
Team player
Highly organized, attention to detail and curious



Partner with stakeholders across the business to apply appropriate statistical analysis and quantitative methods to create datasets, analyze existing data, and predict future trends
Provide strategic expertise in machine learning and data mining techniques to identify and apply appropriate techniques, including optimization, simulation, regression, decision trees, neural networks, cluster analyses, mixed models, etc.
Comfortably navigate the entire lifecycle of an analytics initiative – from leading meetings to gather business requirements, selecting datasets, defining appropriate analytics paths to apply, to documenting processes and presenting compelling results that drive outcomes
Focus on process design and ongoing operational decision support, particularly around staffing optimization, when integrating and using simulation tools
Expand datasets, enhance data quality, create automated anomaly detection systems, and see issues to resolution
Balance accuracy of analysis with needs for rapid response – using many types of data, business acumen, and strategic assumptions when data doesn’t exist
Manage third party relationships to extend data and capabilities, when needed
Clear understanding of the uses and limitations of statistical applications, and ability to communicate relevant information with a wide variety of audiences

Education and Experience Requirements
3+ years of experience in data analysis with heavy emphasis on data-driven decision making and applied statistics
Excellent understanding of machine learning techniques and algorithms, such as k-NN, Naïve Bayes, SVM, decision forecasts, etc.
1+ years’ experience working with common data science toolkits such as R, Weka, Python/NumPy, MatLab, etc.
Completed education in Statistics, Mathematics, Operations Research, Computer Science, Machine Learning, or a related field – Master’s or PhD preferred
Experience in one or more of the following areas: speech/text analytics, data visualization tools, large datasets, distributed computing tools, query languages, or relational databases
Works well both independently with minimal supervision and cooperatively in a technical team
Self-motivated individual with a strong passion for creating empirical research and answering complex questions with data
Ability to clearly communicate data findings to educate partners, motivate action, and improve business outcomes
Experience with government sponsored health care programs and contact center operations desirable

uild a strategic partnership with cross-functional partners- Finance, Product, Marketing, Operations, Business, Hardware
Influence and support data-driven decision making via deeper analysis and insights
Define and measure success metrics for various initiatives
Design, build and carry out experiments to evaluate hypotheses
Work in partnership with Data Engineering and Data Science team to build infrastructure, machine learning models
Build Data Products and Dashboards
Responsibilities

Lead and grow a team of Analysts to design and execute data-driven decision making
Set best practices and processes for analysis, model building, experimentation design
Partner with cross-functional teams to define strategy and vision, and align the team effort and individuals' goals to reach there
Create a brand for this high impact team to attract and retain top researchers and scientists
Drive vision and strategy for Analytics team
Define and build a strong data culture at Spin by working cross-functionally and with data leadership
Deeply understand the business and proactively spot risks and opportunities
Be strong people's manager. Manage performance, career goals. Develop the next generation of leaders.
Serve as coach and mentor to the analysts
Qualifications

Advanced knowledge in Analytics, Statistics, etc. Preferred in Statistics, Operations Research, Computer Science, Management or related disciplines
Extensive and relevant work experience leading and growing a high-performing Analytics team
3+ years of experience in a management role
5+ years of hands-on experience and knowledge of classic and modern ML and data science tools and techniques
A proven track record of using quantitative analysis to impact key decisions
Experience managing and developing a team, covering both individual development as well as overall team strategy and operations
Strong storyteller and ability to communicate effectively with managers and executives
Ideally, strong skills in SQL, Python or R


Creating database views for live data feeds: 4 years (Required)
BI tools: Tableau, MicroStrategy, Business Objects, Qlikview: 4 years (Required)
using statistical analysis software such as Minitab: 2 years (Preferred)
leading projects, ensuring they are in compliance: 6 years (Preferred)
requirements analysis, data analysis, and SQL code developme: 8 years (Required)
working through the full SDLC: 4 years (Preferred)
planning, coordinating, and monitoring project activities: 6 years (Required)
development of data-driven dashboard applications: 4 years (Required)
using SQL development software such as TOAD: 8 years (Required)
creating metadata/data dictionaries: 6 years (Required)
designing and implementing reports: 6 years (Required)
knowledge of data warehousing concepts: 6 years (Required)
data validation supporting end-user testing of software apps: 6 years (Required)
working with relational databases: 8 years (Required)
Education:

Bachelor's (Preferred)


Creating database views for live data feeds: 4 years (Required)
BI tools: Tableau, MicroStrategy, Business Objects, Qlikview: 4 years (Required)
using statistical analysis software such as Minitab: 2 years (Preferred)
leading projects, ensuring they are in compliance: 6 years (Preferred)
requirements analysis, data analysis, and SQL code developme: 8 years (Required)
working through the full SDLC: 4 years (Preferred)
planning, coordinating, and monitoring project activities: 6 years (Required)
development of data-driven dashboard applications: 4 years (Required)
using SQL development software such as TOAD: 8 years (Required)
creating metadata/data dictionaries: 6 years (Required)
designing and implementing reports: 6 years (Required)
knowledge of data warehousing concepts: 6 years (Required)
data validation supporting end-user testing of software apps: 6 years (Required)
working with relational databases: 8 years (Required)
Education:

Bachelor's (Preferred)

Collaborate with GRS Claims Leadership, Product Teams, and Field Operations to develop business cases and specifications for predictive modeling products.
Responsible for maintaining current models, monitoring model performance, and identifying continuous improvement opportunities.
Understand the competitive marketplace, IT environment, claims operations, and data challenges to deliver actionable insights, recommendations, and business processes.
Liaison with IT to help develop innovative ways to deploy new predictive models into production.
Become an expert in the GRS Claims data environment and help define the long-term data strategy required for predictive analytics team.
Present findings, share insights, and make recommendations that impact claims operations.
Effectively communicate results in written, oral, and presentation formats.
Regularly partner with GRS Advanced Analytics Hub as well as Liberty Mutual’s broader Data Science and Advanced Analytics communities.
Qualifications:

Bachelor’s degree required with 5-7+ years of experience in progressively more advanced analytical roles.
Understanding of and ability to learn various analytical, problem solving, and modeling techniques such as GLMs.
Significant experience with data-mining techniques such as SQL.
Experience in one or more programming languages such as Python, R, or SAS strongly preferred.
Demonstrated ability to collaborate and convey complex information clearly and concisely to a diverse group of stakeholders.
Ability to establish and build relationships within and outside the organization.
Exhibits strong communication with management, partners, and stakeholders.
Desire to help train and mentor junior analysts on team.
Ability to manage and prioritize multiple concurrent initiatives.
Knowledge of insurance and claims processes preferred.

-3 years of professional Data Science or Data Analyst experience
Good Business Acumen and ability to identify new ways the business should be leveraging it's data
Strong Data Analytics, Analysis, and/or Virtualization expertise
Product Analysis experience
Comfortable working with unstructured data or large-data sets
Proficient Python programming experience
Strong SQL programming and Relational database knowledge
Knowledge of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)
Bachelor in Computer Science or similar degree is highly desired

Nice to Have Skills, but Not Required:
Familiarity with Machine Learning and/or Artificial Intelligence (A.I.)
Experience with Python data science packages like Scikit-Learn, Pandas, NumPy, and/or SciPy
Experienced with Unix and Linux
Experience with NoSQL databases
Experience with Vertica or similar high-performance databases (snowflake, big query)
Experience working in an Amazon Web Services (AWS) or cloud computing environment
Experience scripting with Bash



Bachelor's degree in a quantitative field (e.g. Mathematics, Computer Science, Physics, Electrical Engineering)
Exceptional technology skills
Keen interest in financial markets and trading
Strong knowledge of Python
Experience with data analysis techniques along with relevant libraries (e.g. NumPy/SciPy/Pandas, matplotlib, statsmodels)
Relevant mathematical knowledge (e.g. probability and statistics, financial mathematics, optimization)
Proponent of software engineering techniques and methods: agile development, continuous integration, code review, unit testing, refactoring and related approaches
Excellent communication skills: able to argue a point concisely and deal positively with conflicting views
Advantageous Qualifications

Masters or PhD in a quantitative field
Demonstrated capacity to do first-class research
Experience in a front office quantitative analysis role (hedge fund, investment bank)
Experience with machine learning techniques and relevant Python frameworks (e.g. scikit-learn, Tensorflow)

Supporting planning and development of acquisition efforts and articulates the planning to complete acquisition related documents based on U.S. Coast Guard acquisition policy.
Leading, conducting, and participating in complex management studies and reviews, including budgeting, scheduling and risk analysis.
Developing, designing, reviewing and preparing budgetary and financial statements for CG-9 Acquisition Program.
Computing and estimating the effect of proposed changes in legislation and/or regulations on financial systems and services.
Leading Integrated Product Teams (IPT) and working groups to support projects and tracking and managing resolution of identified issues.
Monitoring the use and rate of expenditure of budgeted funds through continuing dialogue with program officials and their staff.
Preparing project correspondence, presentations, briefings, point papers etc.
Assist in assessing the effectiveness of public diplomacy and public affairs programs, through the development of:
impact, process, and performance evaluations;
randomized control tests; and
stakeholder and user analysis.
Assist in the management and execution of monitoring and evaluation projects, including stakeholder engagement, evaluation design, data collection, data analysis, data visualization, and report development.
Travel to conduct fieldwork associated with monitoring and evaluation projects, including training of local partners, supervision of data collection, and other tasks.
Assist government staff with development and review of contracting documents for the procurement of research and evaluation services.
Communicate with colleagues, management, and other contacts outside the Department to gather and analyze information about public diplomacy programs;
Write reports, letters, presentations, public diplomacy performance measurement and evaluation strategies, and other documents with recommendations for management policies and activities;
Disseminate public diplomacy evaluation and performance findings, recommendations and strategies to Department senior officials, other decision-makers and key stakeholders, including OMB, NSC, Congress, GAO and DoD.
Regularly present evaluation results to public diplomacy practitioners, academics, and other interested parties through both formal and informal presentations;
Curate existing research from both USG and non-USG sources;
Provide consultation to public diplomacy practitioners on how to design, manage, and use evaluations to inform and improve programs that advance foreign policy objectives;
Develop and conduct training modules and courses for FSI, and other formal instructional opportunities, for public diplomacy practitioners on how to design and use evaluations;
Liaise with other evaluation professionals in the public, NGO/Foundation, and academic sectors;
Work with other Department of State evaluation units, including ECA, IIP, posts, and regional bureau public diplomacy offices;
Assist with budgeting, scheduling, and other planning tasks for the work unit.





























































